---
title: "Export table data to Cloud Storage \_|\_ BigQuery \_|\_ Google Cloud Documentation"
url: https://docs.cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/exporting-data
fetch_mode: browser_cdp_bfs
status_code: 200
blocked_reason: null
---

Home
Documentation
Data analytics
BigQuery
Guides
Send feedback
Export table data to Cloud Storage
This page describes how to export or extract data from BigQuery tables to Cloud Storage.
After you've loaded your data into BigQuery, you can export the data in several formats. BigQuery can export up to 1 GB of logical data size to a single file. If you are exporting more than 1 GB of data, you must export your data to multiple files. When you export your data to multiple files, the size of the files will vary.
You can also export the results of a query by using the EXPORT DATA statement. You can use EXPORT DATA OPTIONS to specify the format of the exported data.
Finally, you can use a service such as Dataflow to read data from BigQuery instead of exporting it from BigLake. For more information about using Dataflow to read from and write to BigQuery, see BigQuery I/O documentation.
Export limitations
When you export data from BigQuery, note the following:
Caution: If you are exporting data to a Cloud Storage bucket, we strongly recommend that you disable the Bucket Lock and Soft Delete retention policies on your bucket. When you export to a bucket with these retention policies, BigQuery attempts to rewrite files to the bucket, which can fail if the bucket's retention policy prevents a file from being overwritten, resulting in additional incurred charges. You can re-enable these policies after the export completes.
You cannot export table data to a local file, to Google Sheets, or to Google Drive. The only supported export location is Cloud Storage. For information on saving query results, see Downloading and saving query results.
You can export up to 1 GB of logical table data size to a single file. If you are exporting more than 1 GB of data, use a wildcard to export the data into multiple files. When you export data to multiple files, the size of the files will vary. To limit the exported file size, you can partition your data and export each partition.
The generated file size when using the EXPORT DATA statement is not guaranteed.
The number of files generated by an extract job can vary.
You cannot export nested and repeated data in CSV format. Nested and repeated data are supported for Avro, JSON, and Parquet exports.
When you export data in JSON format, INT64 (integer) data types are encoded as JSON strings to preserve 64-bit precision when the data is read by other systems.
You cannot export data from multiple tables in a single extract job.
You cannot choose a compression type other than GZIP when you export data using the Google Cloud console.
When you export a table in JSON format, the symbols <, >, and & are converted by using the unicode notation \uNNNN, where N is a hexadecimal digit. For example, profit&loss becomes profit\u0026loss. This unicode conversion is done to avoid security vulnerabilities.
The order of exported table data is not guaranteed unless you use the EXPORT DATA statement and specify an ORDER BY clause in the query_statement.
BigQuery doesn't support Cloud Storage resource paths that include multiple consecutive slashes after the initial double slash. Cloud Storage object names can contain multiple consecutive slash ("/") characters. However, BigQuery converts multiple consecutive slashes into a single slash. For example, the following resource path, though valid in Cloud Storage, doesn't work in BigQuery: gs://bucket/my//object//name.
Any new data loaded into BigQuery while an extract job is running won't be included in that extract job. You must create a new extract job to export the new data.
Before you begin
Grant Identity and Access Management (IAM) roles that give users the necessary permissions to perform each task in this document.
Required permissions
To perform the tasks in this document, you need the following permissions.
Permissions to export data from a BigQuery table
To export data from a BigQuery table, you need the bigquery.tables.export IAM permission.
Each of the following predefined IAM roles includes the bigquery.tables.export permission:
roles/bigquery.dataViewer
roles/bigquery.dataOwner
roles/bigquery.dataEditor
roles/bigquery.admin
Permissions to run an extract job
To run an extract job, you need the bigquery.jobs.create IAM permission.
Each of the following predefined IAM roles includes the permissions that you need in order to run an extract job:
roles/bigquery.user
roles/bigquery.jobUser
roles/bigquery.admin
Permissions to write the data to the Cloud Storage bucket
To write the data to an existing Cloud Storage bucket, you need the following IAM permissions:
storage.objects.create
storage.objects.delete
Each of the following predefined IAM roles includes the permissions that you need in order to write the data to an existing Cloud Storage bucket:
roles/storage.objectAdmin
roles/storage.admin
For more information about IAM roles and permissions in BigQuery, see Predefined roles and permissions.
Export formats and compression types
BigQuery supports the following data formats and compression types for exported data.
Data format Supported compression types Details
CSV GZIP
You can control the CSV delimiter in your exported data by using the --field_delimiter bq command-line tool flag or the configuration.extract.fieldDelimiter extract job property.
Nested and repeated data is not supported.
JSON GZIP Nested and repeated data are supported.
Avro DEFLATE, SNAPPY
GZIP is not supported for Avro exports.
Nested and repeated data are supported. See Avro export details.
Parquet SNAPPY, GZIP, ZSTD
Nested and repeated data are supported. See Parquet export details.
Export data
The following sections show you how to export your table data, table metadata, and query results to Cloud Storage.
Export table data
You can export table data by:
Using the Google Cloud console
Using the bq extract command in the bq command-line tool
Submitting an extract job using the API or client libraries
Select one of the following:
Export table metadata
To export table metadata from Iceberg tables, use the following SQL statement:
EXPORT TABLE METADATA FROM `[[PROJECT_NAME.]DATASET_NAME.]TABLE_NAME`;
Replace the following:
PROJECT_NAME: the name of the project for the table. The value defaults to the project that runs this query.
DATASET_NAME: the name of the dataset for the table.
TABLE_NAME: the name of the table.
The exported metadata is located in the STORAGE_URI/metadata folder, where STORAGE_URI is the table's storage location set in the options.
Export query results
You can export your query results to Cloud Storage in the Google Cloud console with the following steps:
Open the BigQuery page in the Google Cloud console.
Go to the BigQuery page
Click add_box SQL query.
Enter a valid GoogleSQL query in the Query editor text area.
Click Run.
When the results are returned, click Save results > Cloud Storage.
In the Export to Google Cloud Storage dialog:
For GCS Location, browse for the bucket, folder, or file where you want to export the data.
For Export format, choose the format for your exported data: CSV, JSON (Newline Delimited), Avro, or Parquet.
For Compression, select a compression format or select None for no compression.
Click Save to export the query results.
To check on the progress of the job, expand the Job history pane and look for the job with the EXTRACT type.
Avro export details
BigQuery expresses Avro formatted data in the following ways:
The resulting export files are Avro container files.
Each BigQuery row is represented as an Avro record. Nested data is represented by nested record objects.
REQUIRED fields are represented as the corresponding Avro types. For example, a BigQuery INTEGER type maps to an Avro LONG type.
NULLABLE fields are represented as an Avro union of the corresponding type and "null".
REPEATED fields are represented as Avro arrays.
TIMESTAMP data types are represented as timestamp-micros logical type (it annotates an Avro LONG type) by default in both Extract jobs and Export Data SQL. (Caution: you can add use_avro_logical_types=False to Export Data Options to disable the logical type so it uses string type instead on timestamp column, but in Extract Jobs, it always uses the Avro logical type.)
DATE data types are represented as date logical type (it annotates an Avro INT types) by default in Export Data SQL, but are represented as string type by default in Extract jobs. (Note: you can add use_avro_logical_types=False to Export Data Options to disable the logical type, or use the flag --use_avro_logical_types=True to enable the logical type in Extract jobs.)
TIME data types are represented as timestamp-micro logical type (it annotates an Avro LONG types) by default in Export Data SQL, but are represented as string type by default in Extract jobs. (Note: you can add use_avro_logical_types=False to Export Data Options to disable the logical type, or use the flag --use_avro_logical_types=True to enable the logical type in Extract jobs.)
DATETIME data types are represented as Avro STRING types (a string type with custom named logical type datetime) by default in Export Data SQL, but are represented as string type by default in Extract jobs. (Note: you can add use_avro_logical_types=False to Export Data Options to disable the logical type, or use the flag --use_avro_logical_types=True to enable logical type in Extract jobs.)
RANGE types aren't supported in Avro export.
Note: The encoding of string type follows the Internet Engineering Task Force RFC 3339 spec.
Parameterized NUMERIC(P[, S]) and BIGNUMERIC(P[, S]) data types transfer their precision and scale type parameters to the Avro decimal logical type.
Caution:
If you export a DATETIME type to Avro, you cannot load the Avro file directly back into the same table schema, because the converted STRING won't match the schema. As a workaround, load the file into a staging table. Then use a SQL query to cast the field to a DATETIME type and save the result to a new table. For more information, see Changing a column's data type .
Export Data Option use_avro_logical_types and Extract Job flag --use_avro_logical_types are applied to all the logical types at the same time once specified.
The Avro format can't be used in combination with GZIP compression. To compress Avro data, use the bq command-line tool or the API and specify one of the supported compression types for Avro data: DEFLATE or SNAPPY.
Parquet export details
BigQuery converts GoogleSQL data types to the following Parquet data types:
BigQuery data type Parquet primitive type Parquet logical type
Integer INT64 NONE
Numeric FIXED_LEN_BYTE_ARRAY DECIMAL (precision = 38, scale = 9)
Numeric(P[, S]) FIXED_LEN_BYTE_ARRAY DECIMAL (precision = P, scale = S)
BigNumeric FIXED_LEN_BYTE_ARRAY DECIMAL (precision = 76, scale = 38)
BigNumeric(P[, S]) FIXED_LEN_BYTE_ARRAY DECIMAL (precision = P, scale = S)
Floating point FLOAT NONE
Boolean BOOLEAN NONE
String BYTE_ARRAY STRING (UTF8)
Bytes BYTE_ARRAY NONE
Date INT32 DATE
Datetime INT64 TIMESTAMP (isAdjustedToUTC = false, unit = MICROS)
Time INT64 TIME (isAdjustedToUTC = true, unit = MICROS)
Timestamp INT64 TIMESTAMP (isAdjustedToUTC = false, unit = MICROS)
Geography BYTE_ARRAY GEOGRAPHY (edges = spherical)
The Parquet schema represents nested data as a group and repeated records as repeated groups. For more information about using nested and repeated data in BigQuery, see Specifying nested and repeated columns.
Caution: If you export a DATETIME type to Parquet, you cannot load the Parquet file directly back into the same table schema, because the converted value won't match the schema.
You can use the following workarounds for DATETIME types:
Load the file into a staging table. Then use a SQL query to cast the field to a DATETIME and save the result to a new table. For more information, see Changing a column's data type.
Provide a schema for the table by using the --schema flag in the load job. Define the datetime column as col:DATETIME.
The GEOGRAPHY logical type is represented with GeoParquet metadata added to the exported file(s).
Exporting data into one or more files
The destinationUris property indicates the one or more locations and filenames where BigQuery should export your files.
BigQuery supports a single wildcard operator (*) in each URI. The wildcard can appear anywhere in the filename component. Using the wildcard operator instructs BigQuery to create multiple sharded files based on the supplied pattern. The wildcard operator is replaced with a number (starting at 0), left-padded to 12 digits. For example, a URI with a wildcard at the end of the filename would create files with000000000000 appended to the first file, and 000000000001 appended to the second file, continuing in that pattern.
The following table describes several possible options for the destinationUris property:
destinationUris options
Single URI
Use a single URI if you are exporting table data that is 1 GB or less. This option is the most common use case, as exported data is generally less than the 1 GB maximum value. This option is not supported for the EXPORT DATA statement; you must use a single wildcard URI.
Property definition:
['gs://my-bucket/file-name.json']
Creates:
gs://my-bucket/file-name.json
Single wildcard URI
A single wildcard can be used only in the filename component of the URI.
Use a single wildcard URI if you think your exported data will be larger than the 1 GB maximum value. BigQuery shards your data into multiple files based on the provided pattern. The size of the exported files will vary.
Property definition:
['gs://my-bucket/file-name-*.json']
Creates:
gs://my-bucket/file-name-000000000000.json
gs://my-bucket/file-name-000000000001.json
gs://my-bucket/file-name-000000000002.json
...
['gs://my-bucket/*']
Creates:
gs://my-bucket/000000000000
gs://my-bucket/000000000001
gs://my-bucket/000000000002
...
Limit the exported file size
When you export more than 1 GB of data in a single export, you must use a wildcard to export the data into multiple files and the size of the files varies. If you need to limit the maximum size of each exported file, one option is to randomly partition your data and then export each partition to a file:
Determine the number of partitions you need, which is equal to the total size of your data divided by the chosen exported file size. For example, if you have 8,000 MB of data and you want each exported file to be approximately 20 MB, then you need 400 partitions.
Create a new table that is partitioned and clustered by a new randomly generated column called export_id. The following example shows how to create a new processed_table from an existing table called source_table which requires n partitions to achieve the chosen file size:
CREATE TABLE my_dataset.processed_table
PARTITION BY RANGE_BUCKET(export_id, GENERATE_ARRAY(0, n, 1))
CLUSTER BY export_id
AS (
SELECT *, CAST(FLOOR(n*RAND()) AS INT64) AS export_id
FROM my_dataset.source_table
);
For each integer i between 0 and n-1, run an EXPORT DATA statement on the following query:
SELECT * EXCEPT(export_id)
FROM my_dataset.processed_table
WHERE export_id = i;
Extract compressed table
Example use case
This example shows how you can export data to Cloud Storage.
Suppose you are streaming data to Cloud Storage from endpoint logs continuously. A daily snapshot is to be exported to Cloud Storage for backup and archival purposes. The best choice is an extract job subject to certain quotas and limitations.
Submit an extract job with the API or client libraries, passing in a unique ID as jobReference.jobId. Extract Jobs are asynchronous. Check the job status using the unique job ID used to create the job. The job completed successfully if status.status is DONE. If status.errorResult is present, the job failed and needs to be retried.
Batch data processing
Suppose a nightly batch job is used to load data by a fixed deadline. After this load job completes, a table with statistics is materialized from a query as described in the preceding section. Data from this table is retrieved and compiled into a PDF report and sent to a regulator.
Since the amount of data that needs to be read is small, use the tabledata.list API to retrieve all rows of the table in JSON dictionary format. If there is more than one page of data, the results have the pageToken property set. To retrieve the next page of results, make another tabledata.list call and include the token value as the pageToken parameter. If the API call fails with a 5xx error, retry with exponential backoff. Most 4xx errors cannot be retried. For better decoupling of BigQuery export and report generation, results should be persisted to disk.
Quota policy
For information on extract job quotas, see Extract jobs on the Quotas and limits page.
Usage for extract jobs are available in the INFORMATION_SCHEMA. The job entry in the JOBS_BY_* system tables for the extract job contains a total_bytes_processed value that can be used to monitor the aggregate usage to ensure that it stays under 50 TiB per-day. To learn how to query the INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS view to get the total_bytes_processed value, see INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS schema
View current quota usage
You can view your current usage of query, load, extract, or copy jobs by running an INFORMATION_SCHEMA query to view metadata about the jobs ran over a specified time period. You can compare your current usage against the quota limit to determine your quota usage for a particular type of job. The following example query uses the INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS view to list the number of query, load, extract, and copy jobs by project:
SELECT
sum(case when job_type="QUERY" then 1 else 0 end) as QRY_CNT,
sum(case when job_type="LOAD" then 1 else 0 end) as LOAD_CNT,
sum(case when job_type="EXTRACT" then 1 else 0 end) as EXT_CNT,
sum(case when job_type="COPY" then 1 else 0 end) as CPY_CNT
FROM `region-REGION_NAME`.INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS_BY_PROJECT
WHERE date(creation_time)= CURRENT_DATE()
You can set up a Cloud Monitoring alerting policy that monitors the number of bytes exported.
In the Google Cloud console, go to the notifications Alerting page:
Go to Alerting
If you use the search bar to find this page, then select the result whose subheading is Monitoring.
On the Alerting page, click Create Policy.
Under Policy configuration mode, select Code editor (MQL or PromQL).
In the PromQL query editor, enter the following query:
(
sum by (project_id, quota_metric, location) (increase({"serviceruntime.googleapis.com/quota/rate/net_usage", monitored_resource="consumer_quota", service="bigquery.googleapis.com"}[1m]))
/
max by (project_id, quota_metric, location) ({"serviceruntime.googleapis.com/quota/limit", monitored_resource="consumer_quota", service="bigquery.googleapis.com", limit_name="ExtractBytesPerDay"})
) > 0.01
If Auto-run isn't enabled, then click Run Query.
Configure the rest of your alert and click Create policy.
For detailed steps about creating PromQL-based alerting policies, see Create PromQL-based alerting policies (Console).
Troubleshooting
Diagnose and troubleshoot issues with extract jobs.
Diagnose issues using Logs Explorer
To diagnose issues with extract jobs, you can use the Logs Explorer to review the logs for a specific extract job and identify possible errors. The following Logs Explorer filter returns information about your extract jobs:
resource.type="bigquery_resource"
protoPayload.methodName="jobservice.insert"
(protoPayload.serviceData.jobInsertRequest.resource.jobConfiguration.query.query=~"EXPORT" OR
protoPayload.serviceData.jobCompletedEvent.eventName="extract_job_completed" OR
protoPayload.serviceData.jobCompletedEvent.job.jobConfiguration.query.query=~"EXPORT")
Exceeded extract bytes per day quota error
BigQuery returns this error when the extraction exceeds the default 50 TiB daily limit in a project. For more information about extract job limits, see Extract jobs.
Error message
Your usage exceeded quota for ExtractBytesPerDay
Diagnosis
If you are exporting a table that is larger than 50 TiB, the export fails because it exceeds the extraction limit. If you want to export table data for specific table partitions, you can use a partition decorator to identify the partitions to export.
If you would like to gather usages of exports data over recent days, you can try the following:
View the quotas for your project with filter criteria such as Name: Extract bytes per day or Metric: bigquery.googleapis.com/quota/extract/bytes along with the Show usage chart to see your usage trend over a few days.
Alternatively you can query INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS_BY_PROJECT to see your total extract bytes over a few days. For example, the following query returns the daily total bytes processed by EXTRACT jobs in the past seven days.
SELECT
TIMESTAMP_TRUNC(creation_time, DAY) AS day,
SUM ( total_bytes_processed ) / POW(1024, 3) AS total_gibibytes_processed
FROM
`region-REGION_NAME`.INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS_BY_PROJECT
WHERE
creation_time BETWEEN TIMESTAMP_SUB(CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(), INTERVAL 7 DAY) AND CURRENT_TIMESTAMP()
AND job_type = "EXTRACT"
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 2 DESC
You can then further refine the results by identifying the specific jobs that are consuming more bytes than expected. The following example returns the top 100 EXTRACT jobs which are consuming more than 100 GB processed over the past seven days.
SELECT
creation_time,
job_id,
total_bytes_processed/POW(1024, 3) AS total_gigabytes_processed
FROM
`region-REGION_NAME`.INFORMATION_SCHEMA.JOBS_BY_PROJECT
WHERE
creation_time BETWEEN TIMESTAMP_SUB(CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(), INTERVAL 7 DAY) AND CURRENT_TIMESTAMP()
AND job_type="EXTRACT"
AND total_bytes_processed > (POW(1024, 3) * 100)
ORDER BY
total_bytes_processed DESC
LIMIT 100
You can alternatively use the jobs explorer with filters like Bytes processed more than to filter for high processing jobs for a specified period of time.
Resolution
One method of resolving this quota error is to create a slot reservation and assign your project into the reservation with the PIPELINE job type. This method can bypass the limit check since it uses your dedicated reservations rather than a free shared slot pool. If needed, the reservation can be deleted if you want to use a shared slot pool later on.
For alternative approaches that allow exporting more than 50 TiB, see the notes section in Extract jobs.
Pricing
For information on data export pricing, see the BigQuery pricing page.
Once the data is exported, you are charged for storing the data in Cloud Storage. For more information, see Cloud Storage pricing.
Table security
To control access to tables in BigQuery, see Control access to resources with IAM.
What's next
To learn more about the Google Cloud console, see Using the Google Cloud console.
To learn more about the bq command-line tool, see Using the bq command-line tool.
To learn how to create an application using the BigQuery API client libraries, see Client library quickstart.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2026-04-02 UTC.
